5.Evaluation of Benchmark Results
Based on your benchmarks and your knowledge about XEN paravirtualization, provide short answers to the following questions.

1. LINPACK Benchmark

1.1. Find out what the LINPACK benchmark measures (try google :-). Would you expect paravirtualization to affect the LINPACK benchmark? Why?

The LINPACK benchmark measures how fast a computer solves linear algebra calculations, LU decomposition and solving a system of linear equations. Its results are returned in number of floating point operations per second (FLOPS). As these tasks involve only unprivileged instructions and thus are basically all executed on the CPU we would not expect paravirtualization to affect the benchmark results as long as the virtualized machine has dedicated access to the host's resources.

1.2. Look at your LINPACK measurements. Are they consistent with your expectations. If not, what could be the reason?

Among the paravirtualized hosts we recognize a performance increase of 250% between the small and medium instance. Between medium and large there is no notable difference whereas we would also have expected to also see a similar increase in performance as the instances are supposed to have different number of AWS computing units [1].
The reason for this result could be that the benchmark only runs on a single core and therefore could only make use of a single of both provided EC2 computing units. This would explain the nearly identical results of medium and large as they both provide the same EC2 computing units with the only difference that medium only offers a single while large offers two cores.
Establishing a relation to the "novirt" results is difficult as we don't know the exact hardware of the host hardware used for our AWS benchmarks. We can only state that the single E2 Computing Unit provided in our small instance [1] approximately provides 1/4 of the linear algebra computation power of an Intel(R) Xeon(R) CPU X5355 @ 2.66GHz CPU which had been used for the "novirt" benchmarks.


2. Memsweep Benchmark

2.1. Find out how the memsweep benchmark works by looking at the C code. Would you expect paravirtualization to affect the memsweep benchmark? Why?

This benchmark measures the required time to access (write and clean) heap memory at different locations. The step width between to consecutive accesses is chosen such that a cache miss occurs and the data really has to be loaded from the memory. Because the hypervisor still needs to validate write requests we expect the results to show a slower performance of all virtual machines compared to the "novirt" test results. Moreover, differences between the paravirtualized machines should be the result of different memory and a different clock speed of the actual CPU.

2.2. Look at your memsweep measurements. Are they consistent with your expectations. If not, what could be the reason?

The sweep time of the "novirt" machine is considerably slower than the results of the paravirtualized machines. That is somehow surprising and implies that the Amazon hosts have a much faster memory than the reference computer "novirt". Comparing the results among the virtualized systems shows that the small machine is about 3 times slower than the medium and the large machine, which have nearly identical results. These differences could possibly be caused by different hardware configurations. The equality of the sweep times between the medium and the large machine suggest the conclusion that both machine types are using the same memory hardware. Again, the guest system cannot benefit from the second core available on the large machine.

3 Syscall Benchmark

3.1. Find out how the syscall benchmark works by looking at the C code. Would you expect paravirtualization to affect the syscall benchmark? Why? 

The syscall benchmarks executes 50 million times the same syscall which returns the thread group id of the current process. As paravirtualization uses exceptions and offers the guest OS to provide exception handlers for performance reasons this benchmark should perform much quicker than on fully virtualized machines. Compared to an unvirtualized host we expect small performance drawbacks because of the required execution power to create software exceptions. Among the three test instances there should be notable differences between all instances.

3.2. Look at the syscall measurements. Are they consistent with your expectations. If not, what could be the reason?

The results show that the medium instance runs the benchmark within less than half the time the small instance requires. The nearly doubled clock rate and the faster memory of the medium machine could be the reason for the difference. On the other side there is no difference between medium and large which could be explained by the test running again on a single core only.

4. Fork Benchmark

4.1. Find out how the fork benchmark works by looking at the C code. Would you expect paravirtualization to affect the fork benchmark? Why?

This benchmark measures the time it takes to duplicate the benchmark process itself for 1 million times. Since a fork requires the execution of privileged instructions and write operations to the memory we would assume that the paravirtualized machines are slower than the "novirt" reference system. The actual execution of the operations depends on the clock rate and the access time to the memory. Thus, the small instances should be slightly slower than the medium and the large instances.

4.2. Look at the fork measurements. Are they consistent with your expectations. If not, what could be the reason?

TBD

5. Disk Benchmark

5.1. Find out how the disk benchmark works by looking at the shell code. Would you expect paravirtualization to affect the disk benchmark? Why?

The disk benchmark copys 1M blocks from /dev/xvda1 to /dev/null, 4096 bytes at a time. We expected the io-access from a paravirtualized machine to be slower than a non-virtualized one, but compared to a full-virtualized solution it should be faster. Among the three instances there should be performance increases on the more powerful instances. As Amazon states the io-performance of both the small and the medium instances should be "medium" whereas the large instances should have a "high" performance.

5.2. Look at the disk measurements. Are they consistent with your expectations. If not, what could be the reason?

Among the three virtualized instances we see an increasing disk read performance as they get more powerful as expected. We have a larger gap between the small and the medium instance's average value than between the medium and the large one. So therefore Amazon's io-classification might not be that meaningful, whereas changing from 1 to 2 computing units have increased the performance more noticeable than the change to 4 units.
The difference between the novirt value and the virtualized one might be due to more performant hard disks (maybe even ssds) used in the ec2.


6. Network Throughput Benchmark

6.1. Find out how the network benchmark works by looking at the shell code (the iperf manpage should be helpful). Would you expect paravirtualization to affect the network benchmark? Why? 

The network benchmark starts a simple iperf server on the one machine and generates traffic to it from the other machine. The script runs the iperf client in different configurations with varying buffer sizes from 16 to 4096 KB. The client also has an options that disables Nagle's algorithm in TCP, so that the packets get sent immediately. 


6.2. Look at the network throughput measurements. Are they consistent with your expectations. If not, what could be the reason?

In general we have smaller throughput values for the virtual instances than for the non-virtual. This could be due to the slower io-virtualization. For up to a buffer size of 512 KB we have nearly the same values for small and large instances. But the large instances can handle larger buffer sizes better due to the fact that they get more io-access assured by amazon, so they get prioritised. The small instance reaches its peak rate at a buffer size of 1024 KB, whereas the large instance reaches the best value with a 2048 KB buffer. Both instances' throughput decreases a little when using larger buffers.

========

References:

[1] http://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/
